README.md, before:

# PrayerHub Mini

Headless PrayerHub prototype for a Raspberry Pi device. This repo is intentionally small and grows by ticket.

## Structure

- `src/` runtime code
- `tests/` tests
- `deploy/` install and systemd assets

## Setup

```bash
pip install poetry poetry-plugin-export
poetry install
```

## Tests

```bash
poetry run pytest -q
```

## Run (dry-run)

```bash
poetry run python -m prayerhub.app --config ./config.yml --dry-run
```

## End-to-end validation checklist (manual)

- boot device and confirm `prayerhub` service is active
- login to the control panel and schedule a test audio in 2 minutes
- hear test audio from the Bluetooth speaker
- disable Wi-Fi, restart service, and confirm it still schedules from cache

## Smoke test

```bash
poetry run pytest -m smoke -q
```

## Build install bundle

```bash
bash deploy/build_bundle.sh
```

The bundle is created as `prayerhub-install-bundle.zip` and is also built by CI.

## Deploy to Pi

See `deployment.md` for step-by-step Raspberry Pi Zero 2W deployment instructions.

Commit message:

feat: default playback timeout to auto duration mode

README.md, after:

# PrayerHub Mini

Headless PrayerHub prototype for a Raspberry Pi device. This repo is intentionally small and grows by ticket.

## Structure

- `src/` runtime code
- `tests/` tests
- `deploy/` install and systemd assets

## Setup

```bash
pip install poetry poetry-plugin-export
poetry install
```

## Tests

```bash
poetry run pytest -q
```

## Run (dry-run)

```bash
poetry run python -m prayerhub.app --config ./config.yml --dry-run
```

## Playback timeout strategy

Audio playback timeouts default to a fixed limit, but you can switch to
duration-based timeouts when `ffprobe` is available. Auto mode uses the audio
file duration plus a small buffer, and falls back to `playback_timeout_seconds`
if the duration cannot be read.

```yaml
audio:
  playback_timeout_seconds: 300
  playback_timeout_strategy: "auto" # fixed or auto (advanced users only)
  playback_timeout_buffer_seconds: 5
```

When `playback_timeout_strategy` is `auto`, install `ffprobe` (from ffmpeg) on
the device to enable duration detection.

## End-to-end validation checklist (manual)

- boot device and confirm `prayerhub` service is active
- login to the control panel and schedule a test audio in 2 minutes
- hear test audio from the Bluetooth speaker
- disable Wi-Fi, restart service, and confirm it still schedules from cache

## Smoke test

```bash
poetry run pytest -m smoke -q
```

## Build install bundle

```bash
bash deploy/build_bundle.sh
```

The bundle is created as `prayerhub-install-bundle.zip` and is also built by CI.

## Deploy to Pi

See `deployment.md` for step-by-step Raspberry Pi Zero 2W deployment instructions.
